# README

The **only** development branch for CoursePress 2 is `coursepress/2.0-dev`. This branch ultimately is responsible for creating the production branches that are finally published. Consider it to be a "super branch".  

Production branches are automatically built, based on the dev branch. Any changes made to those other branches will be overwritten!

**Remember:** `coursepress/2.0-dev` is the ONLY branch that should be edited and forked!

**Notes:** 

1. Only fork and submit pull-requests to the super branch `coursepress/2.0-dev`!
2. Never fork the production branches (below)!
3. Never publish/release the super branch `coursepress/2.0-dev` anywhere!

-----

# PRODUCTION BRANCHES

Production branches are always supposed to be stable and can be released/published at any time.


## CoursePress Pro (coursepress/2-pro)  

CoursePress Pro is the official premium plugin that lives on WPMU DEV. Also this plugin is used to power the WP Academy site.

## CoursePress (coursepress/2-free)  

CoursePress is the free limited version that gets published to the WordPress plugin directory.

## CoursePress Campus (coursepress/2-campus)  

CoursePress Campus is the version that is used on Edublogs and CampusPress.


-----

# DEVELOPMENT

As mentioned above: Only directly edit the branch `coursepress/2.0-dev`. Other branches should be only updated via grunt tasks (see section "Automation" below).

Important: Do not let your IDE change the **source order** of the code. Fixing up formatting is fine, but moving code blocks around is not! It will confuse grunt and produce problems.

## Implement version differences

As mentioned, we will only update the super branch with all changes, even if those changes only relate to a specific product (like Premium version). There are two ways to add code that is specific to a single product only:

1. Put the code into a product directory (prefered).
2. Wrap code in product conditions.

### Product directories

The prefered way to implement different code is to move pro/campus code into the subfolders `/campus` and `/premium`. Code in the other directories is supposed to be core-plugin code (i.e. free plugin).

Any images/js/css code that is not core/free plugin should also be moved into the product directory.

### Product conditions

There are special comments in the `coursepress/2.0-dev` branch will make sure some code only end up on the pro plugin and some code only end up in the free plugin.

Those are:

```
#!php 
/* start:pro */
echo 'This is only in coursepress/2-pro';  
/* end:pro */
  
/* start:free */
echo 'This is only in coursepress/2-free';  
/* end:free */

/* start:campus */
echo 'This is only in coursepress/2-campus';  
/* end:campus */
```


## Working with the branches

### Cloning

CoursePress uses submodules, so use the `--recursive` flag if you clone from command line:  

```
#!bash 
$ git clone git@bitbucket.org:incsub/coursepress.git --recursive  
```

If you already have a cloned repo, you will need to *init* the submodule.  

```
#!bash 
$ git submodule init --
$ git submodule update  
```

### Agile workflow

Every bug fix/change must be made in a separate branch. Create a branch with name `agile/2.0-[id]-[short-desc]` and make all the changes and alpha-tests there. Once stable submit a pull request to the super branch `coursepress/2.0-dev`.

**Do not directly update the super branch, always use pull requests**

### JS and CSS files

Only edit/create javascript and css files inside the `/src` folders:

* `scripts/src/*` for javascript.
* `styles/src/*` for css. Use .scss extension (SASS)!

Important: Those folders are scanned and processed when running grunt. Files in base of `scripts/` and `styles/` are overwritten by grunt.

*Note:*
There is a hardcoded list of js and scss files that are monitored and compiled by grunt. If you add a new js or scss file then you need to edit `Gruntfile.js` and add the new file to the file list in `js_files_concat` or `css_files_compile`.

### Folder structure

* `asset/` .. contains all images, js, css (scss) and font files.
* * *Special folders inside assets:*
* * `assets/js/src/` .. source js-files
* * `assets/css/src/` .. source scss-files
* `include/` .. All php code of the core (free version) goes here.
* `premium/` .. All Premium-Only code belongs here!
* `campus/` .. All CampusPress-Only code belongs here!

* `_deprecated/` .. this folder should be removed before 2.0 is released!

* `test/` .. contains PHP Unit Tests (run by grunt).
* `language/` .. contains .pot translation files (generated by grunt, do not modify).
* `themes/` .. contains the CoursePress theme. This is a submodule that is maintained in a different reposotiry. Do not modify.
* `node_modules/` .. files needed by grunt (see "Set up grunt" below).
* `vendor/` .. files needed by grunt (see "Set up grunt" below).

Product folders `premium` and `campus` also contain the same subfolders as the core plugin: `assets` for js/css/images and `include` for php files.

Naming convention for files/folders:

* Prefix files that contian a php class with term "class-".
* Use lower-case only
* * Example: *"class-templatetags.php" not "class-templateTags.php"*
* Use hyphen "-" instead of underscore "_"
* * Example: *"class-core.php" not "class_core.php"*
* Try to keep all folder and file names in singular 
* * Example: *"include" not "includes"*

### Working with MarketPress in CoursePress  

#### Preparing MarketPress for CoursePress Standard  

No steps required here as CoursePress Standard now fetches MarketPress Lite directly from the WordPress.org directory when the user wants to enable it.  

#### Preparing MarketPress for CoursePress Pro

* Download MarketPress from WPMU DEV Premium.  
* Save the zip file as `/assets/files/marketpress-pro.zip` (replace existing file).


-----

# AUTOMATION

See notes below on how to correctly set up and use grunt. *This has changed since 1.x!*

Many tasks as well as basic quality control are done via grunt. Below is a list of supported tasks.

**Important**: Before making a pull-request to the super branch (2.0-dev) always run the task `grunt` - this ensures that all .php, .js and .css files are validated and existing unit tests pass. If an problems are reported then fix those problems before submitting the pull request.

### Grunt Task Runner  

**ALWAYS** use Grunt to build CoursePress production branches. Use the following commands:  

Category | Command | Action
---------| ------- | ------
Edit | `grunt watch` | Watch js and scss files, auto process them when changed. Same as running `grunt js` and `grunt css` after each js/css change.
Edit | `grunt js` | Manually validate and minify js files. Do this after you merge changes or switch to a different branch.
Edit | `grunt css` | Manually validate and compile scss files to css. Same as js: After merge/switch branch.
Test | `grunt test` | Runs the unit tests.
Test | `grunt php` | Validate WP Coding Standards in php files.
**Build** | `grunt` | Run all default tasks: php, test, js, css. **Run this task before submitting a pull-request**.
Build | `grunt lang` | Update the translations pot file.
Build | `grunt build` | Runs all default tasks + lang, builds all production versions.
Build | `grunt build:pro` | Same as build, but only build the pro plugin version.
Build | `grunt build:free` | Same as build, but only build the free plugin version.
Build | `grunt build:campus` | Same as build, but only build the campus plugin version.


### Set up grunt

#### 1. npm

First install node.js from: <http://nodejs.org/>  

```
#!bash 
# Test it:
$ npm -v

# Install it system wide (optional but recommended):
$ npm install -g npm
```

#### 2. grunt

Install grunt by running this command in command line:

```
#!bash 
# Install grunt:
$ npm install -g grunt-cli
```

#### 3. Setup project

In command line switch to the `coursepress` plugin folder. Run this command to set up grunt for the coursepress plugin:

```
#!bash 
# Install automation tools for coursepress:
$ npm install

# Test it:
$ grunt hello
```

#### 4. Install required tools

Same as 3: Run commands in the `coursepress` plugin folder:

```
#!bash 
# Install composer:
$ php -r "readfile('https://getcomposer.org/installer');" > composer-setup.php
$ php composer-setup.php --filename=composer
$ php -r "unlink('composer-setup.php');"

# Install PHP Unit
$ composer require --dev "phpunit/phpunit=4.8.*"

# Install PHP Code Sniffer:
$ php composer require --dev "squizlabs/php_codesniffer:2.*"

# Install WP Coding Standards:
$ git clone -b master https://github.com/WordPress-Coding-Standards/WordPress-Coding-Standards.git vendor/wpcs
$ vendor/bin/phpcs --config-set installed_paths ../../wpcs

# Config git with your Name/Email
$ git config user.email "<your email>"
$ git config user.name "<your name>"
```


### Specifying i18 tools location  

If `makepot` is not available in your system path you can set your i18 tools path in a private config.json file (excluded by .gitignore). Create config.json and add the following to it:  

```
#!text 
{
   "i18nToolsPath": "/path/to/i18n-tools/"
}
```


### Set up wordpress-develop for unit tests

If the command `grunt test` fails you possibly need to follow these steps and install the wordpress-develop repository to your server.

The repository must exist at one of those directories:

* `/srv/www/wptest/wordpress-develop`
* `/srv/www/wordpress-develop/trunk`    
* Or set the environment variable `WP_TESTS_DIR` to the directory

(See: tests/bootstrap.php line 12-21 for logic)

```
#!bash 
# Create the directory at correct place:
$ mkdir /srv/www/wordpress-develop

# Download the WP-developer repository:
$ cd /srv/www/wordpress-develop
$ svn co http://develop.svn.wordpress.org/trunk/

# Run this to download latest WP updates:
$ cd /srv/www/wordpress-develop/trunk
$ svn up
```


### Unit testing notes

Introduction to unit testing in WordPress: http://codesymphony.co/writing-wordpress-plugin-unit-tests/
